back in september of 2019 i recorded a
video
about autism still to this day
it's the only video on my channel with
autism in the title
and the title begins with the word
autism
so you might think oh that sounds
interesting i might like to know
what this guy has to say about autism
let's say you're one of the
few people who knows to click on the
tiny little icon in the top right corner
of the front page of my youtube channel
to type in a search term the vast
majority of people
on youtube do not realize you can search
within a youtube channel instead of
searching the results for all channels
across the whole platform
this is how you do it if you go to that
little
button and type in the word autism
mysteriously you get a list of
unrelated videos you get every video on
my channel
imaginable as you scroll down except
the one with autism in the name now
suppose you go to the front page of
youtube
and you search for that exact title even
though my channel is not that famous
when you have a distinctive title like
that you may have done this in the past
you remember a video of mine you search
for the title
even from the front page of youtube you
will get that result
if not number one two or three here you
won't get it
at all no matter how much you scroll
down oh and look
more curious still these are the search
results on the front page of youtube
if you take the title and put it in
quotation marks
and these are the results today
i put in a complaint to youtube today
that this video
had been shadow banned i was never
informed that it was banned i was never
allowed to appeal
this wasn't the usual censorship process
but mysteriously this video became
invisible this video became impossible
to find
and because i put in a complaint today
it's quite possible that if you now
repeat this experiment
of searching the same way i've searched
you will not
get these same search results but i
suppose i should take it as a mark of
distinction
that my views on autism are
too hot for youtube
this is a video about autism
autism spectrum disorders including
asperger's
and it's an incredibly depressing topic
to do research on and maybe that's the
fundamental problem we're facing
in the 21st century is that research of
this kind
has become easier and easier to do
but most people live their lives
in a soup of highly emotionally
moving propaganda on these issues
so they never do the google search they
never look up
peer-reviewed scientific articles even
though it's so easy to do
compared to the effort of going to a
library or getting an encyclopedia on
paper
how hard it was to do research this time
20 years ago let's say it's become
so easy but people are disincentivized
because they're given powerful
propaganda messages
in hollywood movies in youtube videos
in stirring stories on the news
and they don't question where their
sense of certainty
comes from they don't think through how
do i know
the things that i think i know i'm just
going to pause here i know for some
people this is the first video you've
ever seen on my channel
a lot of people have a misconception
about me
that i'm an egomaniac or that i think of
myself as brilliant
or that i think of myself as a genius
and i don't
i'm actually very very aware
of the limits of my intelligence partly
because i've lived a life where i've
really
pushed against the limits of my
intelligence i've tried to do things
at the upper limits of my intelligence
and then you find out what you can't do
and partly because now i'm more than 40
years old
and i really feel how limited my
cognitive capacity is now
compared to what it was in my early
twenties
okay that is an incredibly humbling
thing
to live with is the awareness
of having limited cognitive capacity now
compared to what you were capable of
when you were younger
and i live with that every day i also
engage in
the incredibly humbling process
of studying foreign languages and let me
tell you
there is absolutely no evidence
that i'm a linguistic genius if there is
any such thing as linguistic genius
i have my doubts about that the
advantage i have
over my contemporaries the quality i
have
that sometimes makes me seem brilliant
that makes me seem like a genius when
i'm in the company of other people my
same age or when i'm in the company of
other people
younger than myself is that i'm
intensely aware
of the limits of my own knowledge of the
limits of my own expertise
i don't forget how i came to learn
something
i never stopped questioning with myself
and others
how do we know what we think we know and
the answer
very often is propaganda all right
had a conversation now a couple months
ago with people
and they were presenting as facts
ideas they had about gun control
in switzerland and israel wait wait wait
wait wait a minute wait a minute
let's google that what why do you think
that's the case
about gun control in israel five minute
google search
turns out this idea you had about gun
ownership in israel it's not the case
uh legalization of drugs
in portugal legalization of drugs in
colombia and so on wait wait a minute
wait a minute
very often the people i'm talking to
they
have a fixed notion in their minds
of the way the world is and the way the
world ought to be
and they cling to it for highly
emotionally charged reasons and they
don't have the detachment
to loosen up and think wait a minute how
did i form this opinion
how did i come to regard this as fact
what were my sources of information
a really brief example there's a war
almost nobody has heard of
um war that took place between thailand
and france i remember talking to a guy
and
he was supposedly more of an expert than
i was
i knew a lot more than he did as it
turned out and i remember
challenging him so wait a minute where
did you get this claim that the french
won these land battles because i've been
over all the evidence that's available
and the french lost the french lost the
war and they lost these particular
battles
and he talked to me for a while and
there was a pause in the email and he
got back to me
and he had to realize he really had been
reading
french propaganda you know
the forms of propaganda we encounter are
not always that obvious
they're not always that blatant but
people get
deeply attached to a stereotype notion
of what it means to have aspergers of
what it means to have high
functioning autism and then it seems
they're not
willing to face up to the reality of
what the condition is
not even when you show them a quotation
from a peer-reviewed
medical journal that's really clearly
telling you
impaired cognitive function lacking gray
matter in crucial parts of the brain
etc etc
helmet is not coming off so you can beat
your head no
so you when you are safe it comes off
hello and in this video
i would like to talk about
laciel you
um are a right-wing neoliberal
you are a propagandist you are a grifter
you are a liar
and for the record yes
appalachian i know
that you are in fact a liar
uh not just um
not just someone who
gets who gets facts
about um
the left and um
and your um and the more radical
elements of
the vegan community to which you claim
to belong
um i know that you deliberately
lie about
about these elements
to
to get profit from
from right wing politicians and
neoliberal capitalists
on organizations
i don't have
the evidence on me however
a tremendous number of people who
consider themselves
intelligent and well informed wrote into
me
to tell me how wrong i was to describe
autism and asperger's syndrome as
really serious mental disabilities to
describe them
as a mental disability at all at some
in some cases people wrote in to say
that they did not believe it was an
intellectual disability
at all and that therefore it was
inappropriate to refer to it as
mental retardation let me ask you
something
how do i know that broccoli is healthy
scientifically i looked up what broccoli
is made of
i found out the constituent material
components of broccoli and
broccoli has a certain amount of various
vitamins
and various minerals it has a certain
amount of protein a certain amount of
calories a certain amount of fat
you can look at those constituent
elements and feel
reasonably certain that you know
what broccoli is when i've had debates
with people who subscribe to
highly eccentric views on nutritional
science i've
found that they actually had no answer
to this line of reasoning whereas they
may be
committed to a very spiritual way of
thinking about what food is
there's a material sense in which we can
answer
what something is and then start to
understand
its function in the body and come to
conclusions
none of these people writing to me to
defend the
glorified propaganda notion of autism
of aspergers of the other spectrum
disorders
none of them had ever looked into the
question of
what autism is
what are the structural abnormalities in
the brain
that show up on an mri scan what are the
types of cognitive
deficit what are the types of impairment
what are the types of disability
none of them ever showed any interest
in the opinions and experiences of
nurses who have to take care of these
people
for eight hours a day or ten hours a day
and what their perspective is
they're the ones who really know much
less would they
challenge the um propaganda function
of presenting the tiny tiny minority of
so-called savants
with this condition people who are
brilliant at mathematics they wouldn't
check into
what percentage of people with this
condition are represented
by these these people who managed to get
cleaned up and put on stage
and give a lecture telling you how
wonderful their lives are with autism
and how does that compare to the
experiences of
say the specialized nurses who day in
and day out
have to bathe these people feed these
people
restrain them from hurting themselves
clean their kitchens
okay don't show him the food until he's
sitting down let me hold it
now make him sit down well don't make
him encourage him to sit down
okay now that he's sitting now he can
eat
there's always a you know some
underlying ideology he doesn't just hit
himself for no reason i mean some of
it's behavioral
but when you see it continue continue
continue or it gets
to the point of crazy sim then
then you know that there's some
underlying etiology usually medical ear
infection throat infection
something and just like with an infant
when the team
knows me and my preferences and can help
me create a routine
that makes a big difference for staff
and security
patients on the spectrum can present a
unique challenge
if anyone is called into a situation
where a patient may be on the spectrum
here are some things to remember first
don't escalate the situation
stay calm and be patient see if there is
a caregiver nearby
try to establish if the patient has a
way of communicating
there was no interest in looking into
the criminology
of autism oh yes it may sound like
propaganda for someone to point out to
you that a shockingly high percentage
of serial killers and mass murderers
have autistic
spectrum disorders they're autistic or
they have asperger's etc shockingly high
out of the list of 239 mass murderers
and serial killers
meeting certain criteria since 1985
67 out of 239 67 of 239
had some kind of autism you can read
through
all 67 case studies of people with
this condition who became mass murderers
and serial killers oh well well that's
no more
representative than the glorified image
presented in rain man and you know what
i've just now been looking at a whole
stack of peer-reviewed articles
many of which engage in a kind of
dishonest sleight of hand many of which
make the claim
well there is a problem with people with
autistic spectrum disorders committing
crimes
there is a huge over-representation of
people with asperger's
syndrome in prisons and in the special
mental hospitals for people have
committed crimes there are a mix of
psychiatric care in prison that's
impossible yeah yeah there's a much
higher percentage of those people
behind bars than there are these people
with this condition
out in the gym that's true but
but nevertheless the vast majority
of people with autism never commit a
crime in their lives
i think you just saw on screen the the
very very round number of 50 percent
suggesting to you that 50 of people with
autism
remain non-verbal for their entire lives
the vast majority of people on that
spectrum
never get a job as as the video said
never contribute to society
that's the debatable concept but that
they do not lead normal lives much less
are they this hollywood stereotype of
the slightly eccentric
math genius that they
wail and moan and punch themselves in
the face
and scratch at their skin that their
lives are misery from the day they born
till the day they die
and they never speak a word not even in
their first language that their parents
try so hard to teach them
could be fifty percent the numbers
the numbers are unknown because nobody
really
wants to know it's a problem
everyone wants to say something
flattering and positive and uplifting
about
everyone wants to take a one in a
million example and show you oh
don't be afraid of people with
asperger's dessert don't be afraid of
people with autism
don't feel mortified if you're a parent
and this is your child
don't think about this as the really
crippling really serious disability that
it is
things will be all right things will be
okay
one of my brothers was born with autism
one that's what the doctors told
the mother and brothers and sisters
never said a word his entire life
he's about 15 years older than i am he's
lived his whole life
his whole life being taken care of by
the generosity
of the canadian taxpayer and i
hated my father because my father never
went to visit
him my father never took me to visit him
and i thought that was deeply immoral
of my father and it was only when i
really pushed my father on it when i was
getting into my early 20s when i said
look
why did you do why did you never take me
to meet my brother my brother was in a
mental hospital somewhere
and my father broke down crying a little
bit and he started to rant about
just how mentally disabled
my half brother was and how he felt it
was useless to visit him
that he he couldn't even recognize his
own father that he couldn't communicate
verbally and
so on and so forth that like some of the
people you just saw in this video he was
just a screaming
howling mess of repetitive behaviors
violent tendencies taken care of by
nurses nurses who don't seem to get
interviewed on the nightly news
when they do uplifting upbeat stories
about
autism asperger's and you know what even
that diagnosis
i'm skeptical as hell about it because
the propaganda has been so successful
that many doctors
want to give their parents want to give
the parents of disabled children
the diagnosis of autism or the diagnosis
diagnosis of
asperger's disease instead of
using of course a word like
nobody wants to hear that word
instead of just saying mentally
handicapped
instead of maybe using the term brain
damage
my half brother who has that condition
his mother attempted suicide
during the pregnancy she attempted to
kill herself
with gas inhalation from a stove
when i mentioned this to my sister
sister who knew him
better than i did she was shocked
she had been told her whole life by her
mother
he was just born autistic
he was just born that way must just be
something in the dna
she had never admitted to her own
daughter that she attempted suicide
during pregnancy that she had inhaled
gas that she had damaged her own brain
and damage the brain of the developing
fetus
so sometimes these diagnoses as harsh
and terrible as they are
are still a flattering way for people to
evade the reality
of the condition that they've got
say again autism is a very
serious disability asperger's syndrome
is a very serious disability
and in part because there have been
several mass shootings and mass murders
carried out
within our lifetimes by people who have
asperger's and autistic spectrum
disorder
there is a very overt
media effort to reassure the public
that nothing is wrong i don't want you
to be reassured
i want you to do the same kind of
research i did
about broccoli i want you to look into
what the actual disability in the brain
is that shows up on an mri scan
because when you're talking about autism
when you're talking about asperger's
you're not just talking about something
like depression
you're not just talking about a mood or
an attitude or an emotion
you're not talking about something like
ptsd a bad experience in life
you're talking about an abnormality in
the brain
that's exhibited that can be tested
against physically real criteria
and that shows up on an mri scan that
shows up
after the person dies of natural causes
when you bisect
and examine the brain it's medically
real
it's debilitating get to know the
reality of
autistic spectrum disorder and stop
believing
the hollywood